you
this lecture is about the smoothing of
lamb with models in this lecture we are
going to continue talking about the
probabilistic original model in
particular we're going to talk about the
smoothing of lamb with model in the
query likelihood of that rigid or method
so you have seen this slide from a
previous lecture this is a ranking
function based on the query life hold
here we assume that the independence of
generating energy clear award and the
formula would look like a following
where we take a sum over all the query
words and inside the sum there is a log
of probability of award given by the
document or token the language model so
the main task now is to estimate this
talk in the language model as we said
before different methods for estimating
this model would lead to different
retrieval functions so in this lecture
we're going to look into this in more
detail so how do I spend this damage
model well the obvious choice would be
the maximum likelihood estimator that we
have seen before and that is we're going
to normalize the world frequencies in
the document and the estimator
probability would look like this this is
a step function here which means all the
words that have the same frequency count
will have identical proper breeding
right this is another frequent account
but there's a different probability note
that for words that have not occurred in
the document here they all have zero
probability so we know this is just like
the model that we assumed earlier in a
lecture where we assume that the user
with the sample word from the document
to formulate a query and there's no
chance of sampling any word that's not
in the document and we know that's not
good so how do we improve this well
in order to assign a nonzero probability
to words that have not been observed in
the document we would have to take away
some probability mass from the words
that are observed in the document so for
example here we have to take away some
problem in the mess because we need some
extra problem dinner mass for the unseen
words otherwise they want something 1
all these probabilities must sum to 1 so
to make this transformation and to
improve the maximum likelihood estimator
by assigning nonzero probabilities to
words that are not observed in the data
we have to do smoothie and smoothing has
to do with improving the estimate by
considering the possibility that if the
author had been written had had been
asked to write more words for the
document the use the author might have
retained other words if you think about
this factor then a smoothly language
model would be a more accurate
representation of the actual topic
imagine you have seen an abstract of a
research article let's say it's document
is the abstract right if we assume and
see what English abstract that we have
our probability of 0 that would mean
there's no chance of sampling a word
outside the abstract to formulate the
query but imagine a user who is
interested in the topic of the subject
the user might actually choose a word
that's not in the abstract to to use as
a query so obviously if we had asked the
father to write more than also would
have written the full text of that
article so smoothing of the language
model is a attempt to to try to recover
the model for the whole article and then
of course we don't have reading
knowledge about any word
not observe the in the abstract er so
that's why smoothing is actually tricky
problem so let's talk a little bit more
about how to smooth a damage model and
the key question here is and what
probabilities should be assigned to
those unseen words and there are many
different ways of doing that one idea
here that's very useful for retrieval is
it
let the probability of a Nancy Ward be
proportional to its probability given by
reference language model that means if
you don't observe the word in the data
set we're going to assume that this
probability is kind of governed by
another reference language model that we
were constructed it will tell us which
and see words we have likely a higher
probability in the case of virtue or a
natural choice would be to take the
collection language model as a reference
language model that is to say if you
don't know observe a word in the
document we're going to assume that the
probability of this word would be
proportional to the probability of the
word in the whole collection so more
formally
we'll be estimating the probability of a
world of people document as follows if
the word is seen in the document then
the probability would be a discounted
the maximum like rhoda estimated piece
obscene yeah otherwise if the word is
not seeing the document we're gonna let
probability be proportional to the
probability of the word in the
collection and here the coefficient
alpha is to control the amount of
probability mass that we assigned to
unseen words obviously all these
probabilities must have sum to 1 so
alpha sub D is constrained in some way
so what if we plug in this smoothing
formula into our query light or a random
function this is what we will get in
this formula you can see
we have this as a sum over all the query
words and note that we have written to
in the form of a sum over all the
vocabulary as here this is a sum over
all the words in the vocabulary but not
that we have a count of the word in the
query so in the fact we are just taking
some of query words all right this isn't
now a common way that we will use
because of its convenience in some
transformations so this is as I said
this is sum over all the query words in
our smoothing method we assume that the
words that are not observing the
document we have a somewhat different
form of probability name it's for this
form so we're going to then decompose
the sum into two parts one son is
overall the query words that are matched
in the document that means in this son
all the words have nonzero probability
in the document sorry
it's the nonzero count of the word in
the document they all occurred in the
document and they also have to of course
have a nonzero count in the query so
these are the words that are matched
these are the query words that are
matching the document but only unhealing
this son we are taking sum over all the
worlds that are not all clearly was not
are not matched in the document so they
occur in the query due to this term but
they don't occur in the document in this
case these words have this probability
because of our assumption about the
smoothie but that here these seem words
have a different probability now we can
go further by rewriting the second son
as a difference of two other songs
basically the first sum is actually sum
over all the query words now we know
that the original sum is not over all
the query words this is over all the
query words that are not matched in the
document so here we pretend that they
are actually over all the query words so
we take a sum over all the query words
obviously this sum has extra terms that
are this son has extra terms that are
not in this son because here we are
taking sum over all the period was there
it's that not matched in the document so
in order to make them equal we'll have
to then subtract another son here and
this is the sum over all the query words
that are matched ended up in and this
makes sense because here we're
considering all credit words and then we
subtract the query was that are matched
in the document that would give us the
query was that not matched in the
document and this is almost a reverse
process of the first step here and you
might wonder why do we want to do that
well that's because if we do this then
we have different forms of terms inside
of these sums so now you can see in this
sum we have all the words match the
query was matching the document with
this kind of times here we have another
sum over the same set of terms match the
query times in document but inside of
some it's different but these two sums
can clearly be merged
so if we do that we'll get another form
of the formula that looks like the
following at the bottom yep
and note that this is a very interesting
formula because here we combined these
two that our Sun over the query worth
mentioning the document in the one Sun
here and the other Sun now is
decomposing the two parts and these two
parts look much simpler just because
these are the probabilities of unseen
words now this formula is very
interesting because you can see the sum
is not over all the match the query
terms and just like a being the vector
space model we take a sum of terms that
I am the intersection of query vector
and they're talking about that so it all
already looks a little bit like the
vector space model in fact there's even
more severity here as we explained on
this slide
you
[Music]